<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

*   [Collection][1]
    *   [Parameters][2]
    *   [size][3]
    *   [get][4]
        *   [Parameters][5]
    *   [set][6]
        *   [Parameters][7]
    *   [has][8]
        *   [Parameters][9]
    *   [delete][10]
        *   [Parameters][11]
    *   [clear][12]
    *   [forEach][13]
        *   [Parameters][14]
    *   [filter][15]
        *   [Parameters][16]
    *   [map][17]
        *   [Parameters][18]
    *   [some][19]
        *   [Parameters][20]
    *   [every][21]
        *   [Parameters][22]
    *   [reduce][23]
        *   [Parameters][24]
    *   [find][25]
        *   [Parameters][26]
    *   [keys][27]
    *   [values][28]
    *   [findKey][29]
        *   [Parameters][30]
    *   [toArray][31]
    *   [keyArray][32]
    *   [entries][33]
    *   [toArrayByKey][34]
    *   [merge][35]
        *   [Parameters][36]
    *   [clone][37]
    *   [toMap][38]
    *   [toJSON][39]
    *   [iterator][40]

## Collection

[src/Collection.js:5-300][41]

A collection data structure that maps unique keys to values.

### Parameters

*   `entries` **[Array][42]** An optional array of \[key, value] pairs to add to the collection. (optional, default `[]`)

### size

[src/Collection.js:22-22][43]

The number of key-value pairs in the collection.

Type: [number][44]

### get

[src/Collection.js:30-32][45]

Retrieve the value associated with the given key.

#### Parameters

*   `key` **any** The key to look up.

Returns **any** The value associated with the key, or undefined if the key is not in the collection.

### set

[src/Collection.js:40-44][46]

Associate the given value with the given key.

#### Parameters

*   `key` **any** The key to set.
*   `value` **any** The value to associate with the key.

Returns **[Collection][1]** The collection instance (for chaining).

### has

[src/Collection.js:51-53][47]

Check whether the collection contains a given key.

#### Parameters

*   `key` **any** The key to look for.

Returns **[boolean][48]** True if the collection contains the key, false otherwise.

### delete

[src/Collection.js:60-66][49]

Remove the key-value pair associated with the given key.

#### Parameters

*   `key` **any** The key to remove.

Returns **[boolean][48]** True if the key-value pair was removed, false if the key was not in the collection.

### clear

[src/Collection.js:71-74][50]

Remove all key-value pairs from the collection.

### forEach

[src/Collection.js:81-85][51]

Call a given function for each key-value pair in the collection.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[Function][52]** The function to call for each pair. It should take three arguments: the value, the key, and the collection instance.
*   `thisArg` **any?** An optional value to use as `this` when calling the function.

### filter

[src/Collection.js:94-102][53]

Create a new collection that includes only the key-value pairs that satisfy a given condition.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[Function][52]** The condition to test each pair against. It should take three arguments: the value, the key, and the collection instance. Return true to include the pair, false to exclude it.
*   `thisArg` **any?** An optional value to use as `this` when calling the function.

Returns **[Collection][1]** A new Collection instance containing the filtered key-value pairs.

### map

[src/Collection.js:112-118][54]

Creates a new collection with the results of calling a provided function
on every element in the calling collection.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[function][52]** Function that produces an element of the new collection
*   `thisArg` **[object][55]** Object to use as 'this' when executing the callback

Returns **[Collection][1]** A new collection with the results of calling the callback on each element

### some

[src/Collection.js:127-134][56]

Tests whether at least one element in the collection passes the test implemented by the provided function.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[function][52]** Function to test for each element
*   `thisArg` **[object][55]** Object to use as 'this' when executing the callback

Returns **[boolean][48]** True if at least one element passes the test, false otherwise

### every

[src/Collection.js:143-150][57]

Tests whether all elements in the collection pass the test implemented by the provided function.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[function][52]** Function to test for each element
*   `thisArg` **[object][55]** Object to use as 'this' when executing the callback

Returns **[boolean][48]** True if all elements pass the test, false otherwise

### reduce

[src/Collection.js:158-164][58]

Applies a function against an accumulator and each element in the collection to reduce it to a single value.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[function][52]** Function to execute on each element in the collection
*   `initialValue` **any** Value to use as the first argument to the first call of the callback

Returns **any** The reduced value

### find

[src/Collection.js:173-179][59]

Returns the value of the first element in the collection that satisfies the provided testing function.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[function][52]** Function to test for each element
*   `thisArg` **[object][55]** Object to use as 'this' when executing the callback

Returns **any** The value of the first element that passes the test, or undefined if no element passes the test

### keys

[src/Collection.js:184-186][60]

Returns **any** an iterator that contains all the keys of the collection's elements.

### values

[src/Collection.js:192-194][61]

Returns **any** an iterator that contains all the values of the elements in the collection.

### findKey

[src/Collection.js:203-209][62]

Returns the key of the first element in the collection that satisfies the provided testing function.

#### Parameters

*   `callbackFn` **[function][52]** Function to test for each element
*   `thisArg` **[object][55]** Object to use as 'this' when executing the callback

Returns **any** The key of the first element that passes the test, or undefined if no element passes the test

### toArray

[src/Collection.js:216-218][63]

Returns an array containing all the values of the collection in insertion order.

Returns **[Array][42]** An array containing all the values of the collection in insertion order

### keyArray

[src/Collection.js:225-227][64]

Returns an array containing all the keys of the collection in insertion order.

Returns **[Array][42]** An array containing all the keys of the collection in insertion order

### entries

[src/Collection.js:234-236][65]

Returns a new Iterator object that contains the \[key, value] pairs for each element in the collection.

Returns **Iterator** A new Iterator object containing the \[key, value] pairs for each element in the collection

### toArrayByKey

[src/Collection.js:242-249][66]

Returns **any** an array that contains all the values of the elements of the collection, grouped by keys

### merge

[src/Collection.js:257-262][67]

concatenates the given collection with another collection

#### Parameters

*   `collection` &#x20;

Returns **this** returns class (this)

### clone

[src/Collection.js:268-270][68]

Creates a copy of this collection.

### toMap

[src/Collection.js:276-278][69]

Returns **any** an instance of the Map class that contains all the elements of the given collection

### toJSON

[src/Collection.js:284-290][70]

Returns **[Object][55]** returns an object that contains all the elements of the collection as properties of the keys

### iterator

[src/Collection.js:297-299][71]

Returns a new Iterator object that contains the \[key, value] pairs for each element in the collection.

Returns **IterableIterator<[Array][42]>** An iterator object that can be used to iterate over the key-value pairs of the Collection.

[1]: #collection

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #size

[4]: #get

[5]: #parameters-1

[6]: #set

[7]: #parameters-2

[8]: #has

[9]: #parameters-3

[10]: #delete

[11]: #parameters-4

[12]: #clear

[13]: #foreach

[14]: #parameters-5

[15]: #filter

[16]: #parameters-6

[17]: #map

[18]: #parameters-7

[19]: #some

[20]: #parameters-8

[21]: #every

[22]: #parameters-9

[23]: #reduce

[24]: #parameters-10

[25]: #find

[26]: #parameters-11

[27]: #keys

[28]: #values

[29]: #findkey

[30]: #parameters-12

[31]: #toarray

[32]: #keyarray

[33]: #entries

[34]: #toarraybykey

[35]: #merge

[36]: #parameters-13

[37]: #clone

[38]: #tomap

[39]: #tojson

[40]: #iterator

[41]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L5-L300 "Source code on GitHub"

[42]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[43]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L22-L22 "Source code on GitHub"

[44]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[45]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L30-L32 "Source code on GitHub"

[46]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L40-L44 "Source code on GitHub"

[47]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L51-L53 "Source code on GitHub"

[48]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[49]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L60-L66 "Source code on GitHub"

[50]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L71-L74 "Source code on GitHub"

[51]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L81-L85 "Source code on GitHub"

[52]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/function

[53]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L94-L102 "Source code on GitHub"

[54]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L112-L118 "Source code on GitHub"

[55]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[56]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L127-L134 "Source code on GitHub"

[57]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L143-L150 "Source code on GitHub"

[58]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L158-L164 "Source code on GitHub"

[59]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L173-L179 "Source code on GitHub"

[60]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L184-L186 "Source code on GitHub"

[61]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L192-L194 "Source code on GitHub"

[62]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L203-L209 "Source code on GitHub"

[63]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L216-L218 "Source code on GitHub"

[64]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L225-L227 "Source code on GitHub"

[65]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L234-L236 "Source code on GitHub"

[66]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L242-L249 "Source code on GitHub"

[67]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L257-L262 "Source code on GitHub"

[68]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L268-L270 "Source code on GitHub"

[69]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L276-L278 "Source code on GitHub"

[70]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L284-L290 "Source code on GitHub"

[71]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Collection.js#L297-L299 "Source code on GitHub"
