<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

*   [ChannelMessageEvents][1]
    *   [Properties][2]
*   [GeneralMessageEvents][3]
    *   [Properties][4]
*   [InteractionEvents][5]
    *   [Properties][6]

## ChannelMessageEvents

[src/events.js:88-168][7]

Events that can be emitted by the application.

Type: [Object][8]

### Properties

*   `ready` **[string][9]** Emitted when the application is ready to start processing events.
*   `privateMessageCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new private message is created.
*   `privateMessageUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when an existing private message is updated.
*   `privateMessagePinned` **[string][9]** Emitted when a private message is pinned.
*   `privatePhotoCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new photo is sent in a private message.
*   `privateStickerCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new sticker is sent in a private message.
*   `privateVoiceCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new voice message is sent in a private message.
*   `privateVideoNoteCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new video note is sent in a private message.
*   `privateAudioCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new audio file is sent in a private message.
*   `privateDocumentCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new document is sent in a private message.
*   `privatePhotoUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a photo in a private message is updated.
*   `privateStickerUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a sticker in a private message is updated.
*   `privateVoiceUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a voice message in a private message is updated.
*   `privateVideoNoteUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a video note in a private message is updated.
*   `privateAudioUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when an audio file in a private message is updated.
*   `privateDocumentUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a document in a private message is updated.
*   `privateConcatCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new contact is sent in a private message.
*   `privatePollCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new poll is created in a private message.
*   `privateLocationCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a location is shared in a private message.
*   `groupMessagePinned` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group message is pinned.
*   `groupMessageUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when an existing group message is updated.
*   `groupMessageCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new group message is created.
*   `groupPermsUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when group permissions are updated.
*   `groupMemberAdd` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new member joins a group.
*   `groupMemberLeft` **[string][9]** Emitted when a member leaves a group.
*   `groupForumCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new group forum is created.
*   `groupForumMessageCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new message is posted in a group forum.
*   `groupForumReopened` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group forum is reopened.
*   `groupForumClose` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group forum is closed.
*   `groupBroadcastStart` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group broadcast starts.
*   `groupBroadcastEnd` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group broadcast ends.
*   `groupBroadcastScheduled` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group broadcast is scheduled.
*   `groupAvatarUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group avatar is updated.
*   `groupNameUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a group name is updated.
*   `groupStickerUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a sticker in a group is updated.
*   `groupVoiceUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a voice message in a group is updated.
*   `groupVideoNoteUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a video note in a group is updated.
*   `groupAudioUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when an audio file in a group is updated.
*   `groupDocumentUpdate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a document in a group is updated.
*   `groupConcatCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new contact is sent in a group.
*   `groupPollCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a new poll is created in a group.
*   `groupLocationCreate` **[string][9]** Emitted when a location is shared in a group.
    /\*\*
    An object containing the names of all events related to channel messages in the chat platform.
*   `channelMessagePinned` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a channel message is pinned.
*   `channelMessageCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a new channel message is created.
*   `channelMessageUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when an existing channel message is updated.
*   `channelPermsUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when the permissions for a channel are updated.
*   `channelNameUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when the name of a channel is updated.
*   `channelPhotoUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when the photo of a channel is updated.
*   `channelBroadcastStart` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a channel broadcast is started.
*   `channelBroadcastEnd` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a channel broadcast is ended.
*   `channelBroadcastScheduled` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a channel broadcast is scheduled.
*   `channelPhotoCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a photo is added to a channel.
*   `channelStickerCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a sticker is added to a channel.
*   `channelVoiceCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a voice message is added to a channel.
*   `channelVideoNoteCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a video note is added to a channel.
*   `channelAudioCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when an audio message is added to a channel.
*   `channelDocumentCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a document is added to a channel.
*   `channelAvatarUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when the avatar of a channel is updated.
*   `channelStickerUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a sticker in a channel is updated.
*   `channelVoiceUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a voice message in a channel is updated.
*   `channelVideoNoteUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a video note in a channel is updated.
*   `channelAudioUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when an audio message in a channel is updated.
*   `channelDocumentUpdate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a document in a channel is updated.
*   `channelConcatCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a concatenated message is created in a channel.
*   `channelPollCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a poll is created in a channel.
*   `channelLocationCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a location is shared in a channel.

## GeneralMessageEvents

[src/events.js:88-168][10]

An object containing the names of all events related to general messages in the chat platform.

Type: [Object][8]

### Properties

*   `generalMessageCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when a general message is created.

## InteractionEvents

[src/events.js:88-168][11]

An object containing the names of all events related to interactions in the chat platform.

Type: [Object][8]

### Properties

*   `interactionCreate` **[string][9]** Event triggered when an interaction (e.g. button click) is created.

[1]: #channelmessageevents

[2]: #properties

[3]: #generalmessageevents

[4]: #properties-1

[5]: #interactionevents

[6]: #properties-2

[7]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/events.js#L1-L73 "Source code on GitHub"

[8]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[9]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[10]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/events.js#L75-L79 "Source code on GitHub"

[11]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/events.js#L81-L85 "Source code on GitHub"
