<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

*   [fromLocalFile][1]
    *   [Parameters][2]
*   [fromBuffer][3]
    *   [Parameters][4]
*   [fromReadableStream][5]
    *   [Parameters][6]
*   [fromURLStream][7]
    *   [Parameters][8]
*   [fromURL][9]
    *   [Parameters][10]
*   [fromFileId][11]
    *   [Parameters][12]
*   [isValidUrl][13]
    *   [Parameters][14]
*   [isImageFile][15]
    *   [Parameters][16]
*   [isAudioFile][17]
    *   [Parameters][18]
*   [isVideoFile][19]
    *   [Parameters][20]
*   [isPDFFile][21]
    *   [Parameters][22]
*   [isZipFile][23]
    *   [Parameters][24]
*   [getFileSizeInMB][25]
    *   [Parameters][26]

## fromLocalFile

[src/Input.js:10-12][27]

The local file specified by path will be uploaded to Telegram using multipart/form-data.

10 MB max size for photos, 50 MB for other files.

### Parameters

*   `path` &#x20;
*   `filename` &#x20;

## fromBuffer

[src/Input.js:19-21][28]

The buffer will be uploaded as file to Telegram using multipart/form-data.

10 MB max size for photos, 50 MB for other files.

### Parameters

*   `buffer` &#x20;
*   `filename` &#x20;

## fromReadableStream

[src/Input.js:28-30][29]

Contents of the stream will be uploaded as file to Telegram using multipart/form-data.

10 MB max size for photos, 50 MB for other files.

### Parameters

*   `stream` &#x20;
*   `filename` &#x20;

## fromURLStream

[src/Input.js:37-39][30]

Contents of the URL will be streamed to Telegram.

10 MB max size for photos, 50 MB for other files.

### Parameters

*   `url` &#x20;
*   `filename` &#x20;

## fromURL

[src/Input.js:52-54][31]

Provide Telegram with an HTTP URL for the file to be sent.
Telegram will download and send the file.

*   The target file must have the correct MIME type (e.g., audio/mpeg for `sendAudio`, etc.).
*   `sendDocument` with URL will currently only work for GIF, PDF and ZIP files.
*   To use `sendVoice`, the file must have the type audio/ogg and be no more than 1MB in size.
    1-20MB voice notes will be sent as files.

5 MB max size for photos and 20 MB max for other types of content.

### Parameters

*   `url` &#x20;

## fromFileId

[src/Input.js:67-69][32]

If the file is already stored somewhere on the Telegram servers, you don't need to reupload it:
each file object has a file\_id field, simply pass this file\_id as a parameter instead of uploading.

It is not possible to change the file type when resending by file\_id.

It is not possible to resend thumbnails using file\_id.
They have to be uploaded using one of the other Input methods.

There are no limits for files sent this way.

### Parameters

*   `fileId` &#x20;

## isValidUrl

[src/Input.js:77-84][33]

Checks if the provided string is a valid URL by attempting to create a new URL object.

### Parameters

*   `url` **[string][34]** The URL string to be checked.

Returns **[boolean][35]** Returns true if the provided string is a valid URL, false otherwise.

## isImageFile

[src/Input.js:92-96][36]

Determines whether a file with the given filename is an image file, based on its extension.

### Parameters

*   `filename` **[string][34]** The name of the file to check.

Returns **[boolean][35]** Returns `true` if the file is an image file (based on the file extension); returns `false` otherwise.

## isAudioFile

[src/Input.js:104-108][37]

Returns true if the given filename has an audio file extension, i.e. mp3, wav, or ogg.

### Parameters

*   `filename` **[string][34]** The name of the file to check.

Returns **[boolean][35]** True if the file extension is mp3, wav, or ogg; otherwise, false.

## isVideoFile

[src/Input.js:116-120][38]

Checks if a given filename has a video file extension.

### Parameters

*   `filename` **[string][34]** The name of the file to check.

Returns **[boolean][35]** True if the filename has a video extension, false otherwise.

## isPDFFile

[src/Input.js:128-132][39]

Determines if a given filename has a PDF extension.

### Parameters

*   `filename` **[string][34]** The name of the file to check.

Returns **[boolean][35]** True if the filename has a PDF extension, false otherwise.

## isZipFile

[src/Input.js:140-144][40]

Checks if the provided filename has a .zip extension, indicating it is a ZIP file.

### Parameters

*   `filename` **[string][34]** The name of the file to check.

Returns **[boolean][35]** True if the filename has a .zip extension, false otherwise.

## getFileSizeInMB

[src/Input.js:152-154][41]

Calculates the size of a file in megabytes (MB) based on the file size in bytes.

### Parameters

*   `fileSizeInBytes` **[number][42]** The file size in bytes.

Returns **[string][34]** The file size in megabytes formatted to two decimal places.

[1]: #fromlocalfile

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #frombuffer

[4]: #parameters-1

[5]: #fromreadablestream

[6]: #parameters-2

[7]: #fromurlstream

[8]: #parameters-3

[9]: #fromurl

[10]: #parameters-4

[11]: #fromfileid

[12]: #parameters-5

[13]: #isvalidurl

[14]: #parameters-6

[15]: #isimagefile

[16]: #parameters-7

[17]: #isaudiofile

[18]: #parameters-8

[19]: #isvideofile

[20]: #parameters-9

[21]: #ispdffile

[22]: #parameters-10

[23]: #iszipfile

[24]: #parameters-11

[25]: #getfilesizeinmb

[26]: #parameters-12

[27]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L10-L12 "Source code on GitHub"

[28]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L19-L21 "Source code on GitHub"

[29]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L28-L30 "Source code on GitHub"

[30]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L37-L39 "Source code on GitHub"

[31]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L52-L54 "Source code on GitHub"

[32]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L67-L69 "Source code on GitHub"

[33]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L77-L84 "Source code on GitHub"

[34]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[35]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[36]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L92-L96 "Source code on GitHub"

[37]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L104-L108 "Source code on GitHub"

[38]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L116-L120 "Source code on GitHub"

[39]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L128-L132 "Source code on GitHub"

[40]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L140-L144 "Source code on GitHub"

[41]: https://github.com/Sempai-07/Telegramsjs/blob/00d22b191eea4c7a8fa46e22a4e14ba058b0b4ba/src/Input.js#L152-L154 "Source code on GitHub"

[42]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number
